README.md, before:

# AiDO Meetup #9 with Tomasz Cholewa (https://cloudowski.com): Build and manage NodeJS app using GitLab on GKE

Date:
Place: online
Link:
Organizer: Tomasz Cholewa
Sperakers: Radosław Zduński and Grzegorz Bołtuć from AiDO Meetup

## Useful links

1. https://google.qwiklabs.com/ -> Introduction to GitLab on GKE
2. 
3. GitLab runner: https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/


## Preparation

Steps before Meetup on your GCP account.

1. Create a new project.
2. Go to IAM & Admin -> Quotas -> CPU over 15, 50GB RAM, 300GB SSD in your region/zone.
From GCP Cloud Shell run:

```bash
gcloud config list
```

Copy Project ID and check your limits. GitLab on GKE needs 12 CPU, 45GB RAM and 300GB SSD.  

```bash
gcloud compute project-info describe --project $PROJECT_ID
```

Check if apis are enabled.

```bash
gcloud services list --enabled | grep compute.googleapis.com
gcloud services list --enabled | grep container.googleapis.com

```

```bash
gcloud container clusters create gitlab-gke-aido --cluster-version=1.16 --num-nodes=3 --machine-type=n1-standard-4 --disk-type "pd-ssd" --disk-size "100" --zone europe-west3-b
gcloud container clusters get-credentials gitlab-gke-aido --zone europe-west3-b
```

Or if you don't have enough resources below.

```bash
gcloud container clusters create gitlab-gke-aido --cluster-version=1.16 --num-nodes=3 --machine-type=n1-standard-2 --disk-type "pd-ssd" --disk-size "20" --zone europe-west3-b
gcloud container clusters get-credentials gitlab-gke-aido --zone europe-west3-b
```

## Install GitLab using Helm 3 on GKE

Install Helm 3 on GCP Cloud Shell

```bash
curl -fsSL -o get_helm.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/helm/helm/master/scripts/get-helm-3
chmod 700 get_helm.sh
./get_helm.sh
```

Get IP and e-mail.

```bash
gcloud compute addresses create endpoints-ip --region europe-west3
export LB_IP_ADDR="$(gcloud compute addresses list | awk '/endpoints-ip/ {print$2}')"; echo "LB_IP_ADDR=${LB_IP_ADDR}"
nslookup ${LB_IP_ADDR}.nip.io
export EMAIL="$(gcloud auth list 2> /dev/null | awk '/^\*/ {print $2}')"; echo $EMAIL
```

Install GitLab 13.3.5

```bash
helm repo add gitlab https://charts.gitlab.io/
helm repo update
helm upgrade --install gitlab gitlab/gitlab                    \
             --version 4.3.5                                   \
             --timeout 600s                                     \
             --set global.hosts.externalIP=${LB_IP_ADDR}       \
             --set global.hosts.domain=${LB_IP_ADDR}.nip.io    \
             --set gitlab-runner.runners.privileged=true       \
             --set certmanager-issuer.email=${EMAIL}
```

Wait 5-10 min to starting pods.
If unicorn is running, you can login to Web.

```bash
kubectl get pods
echo; echo "https://gitlab.${LB_IP_ADDR}.nip.io"; echo
```

## Setup GitLab

1. Initial data to GitLab portal.
- user: root
- password from secret
- GitLab education License Key

```bash
echo; kubectl get secret gitlab-gitlab-initial-root-password -ojsonpath={.data.password} | base64 --decode ; echo; echo
echo; curl https://gitlab.com/gitlab-workshops/gitlab-on-gke-gnext/raw/master/gitlab-on-gke/gitlab.license; echo; echo
```

2. Go to admin area.
3. Find **License** section and **Upload New License**.
4. Go to Kubernetes section. Next Add existing cluster.

```bash
echo; kubectl cluster-info | awk '/Kubernetes master/ {print $NF}'; echo #API URL
echo; kubectl get secret $(kubectl get secrets | grep default-token| awk '{print $1}') -o jsonpath="{['data']['ca\.crt']}" | base64 --decode; echo; echo
kubectl create serviceaccount -n default gitlab
kubectl create clusterrolebinding gitlab-cluster-admin --serviceaccount default:gitlab --clusterrole=cluster-admin
echo; kubectl -n default get secret $(kubectl -n default get secrets| awk '/^gitlab-token/ {print $1}') -o jsonpath="{['data']['token']}" | base64 --decode; echo; echo
```

5. Install **Ingress** and **Prometheus** to your GKE. GKE section.
6. Add Base domain GKE information in GitLab (DNS name). GKE section.
7. Install GitLab Runner using GCP Cloud Shell.

   7.1. Get certificate from your Web page {LB_IP_ADDR}.nip.io

   7.2 Create file on your Cloud Shell {LB_IP_ADDR}.nip.io.crt

```bash
kubectl create ns gitlab-managed-apps
kubectl --namespace gitlab-managed-apps create secret generic gitlabcrt --from-file=gitlab.${LB_IP_ADDR}.nip.io.crt
git clone https://github.com/Ansible-in-DevOps/meetup9.git
cd meetup9/infra
nano values_gl_runner.yaml # Add gitlabUrl and runnerRegistrationToken -> GitLab -> Admin section -> Runners
helm upgrade --install gitlab-runner-aido --namespace gitlab-managed-apps -f ./values_gl_runner.yaml gitlab/gitlab-runner --version 0.20.1
```

Check GitLab -> Admin section -> Runners.


## Setup CI/CD pipeline 

1. Create apps repo.
   
Copy/paste code from Meetup9 https://github.com/Ansible-in-DevOps/meetup9/tree/master). 

1. **gitlab-ci.yml** and **Dockerfile** to root tree. 
2. Next create app dir and copy/paste **index.js**, **package.json** and **start.sh** there.

Now create infra repo.

Commit message:

Added support for Docker registry and Vars

README.md, after:

# AiDO Meetup #9 with Tomasz Cholewa (https://cloudowski.com): Build and manage NodeJS app using GitLab on GKE

Date:
Place: online
Link:
Organizer: Tomasz Cholewa
Sperakers: Radosław Zduński and Grzegorz Bołtuć from AiDO Meetup

## Useful links

1. https://google.qwiklabs.com/ -> Introduction to GitLab on GKE
2. 
3. GitLab runner: https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/


## Preparation

Steps before Meetup on your GCP account.

1. Create a new project.
2. Go to IAM & Admin -> Quotas -> CPU over 15, 50GB RAM, 300GB SSD in your region/zone.
From GCP Cloud Shell run:

```bash
gcloud config list
```

Copy Project ID and check your limits. GitLab on GKE needs 12 CPU, 45GB RAM and 300GB SSD.  

```bash
gcloud compute project-info describe --project $PROJECT_ID
```

Check if apis are enabled.

```bash
gcloud services list --enabled | grep compute.googleapis.com
gcloud services list --enabled | grep container.googleapis.com

```

```bash
gcloud container clusters create gitlab-gke-aido --cluster-version=1.16 --num-nodes=3 --machine-type=n1-standard-4 --disk-type "pd-ssd" --disk-size "100" --zone europe-west3-b
gcloud container clusters get-credentials gitlab-gke-aido --zone europe-west3-b
```

Or if you don't have enough resources below.

```bash
gcloud container clusters create gitlab-gke-aido --cluster-version=1.16 --num-nodes=3 --machine-type=n1-standard-2 --disk-type "pd-ssd" --disk-size "20" --zone europe-west3-b
gcloud container clusters get-credentials gitlab-gke-aido --zone europe-west3-b
```

## Install GitLab using Helm 3 on GKE

Install Helm 3 on GCP Cloud Shell

```bash
curl -fsSL -o get_helm.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/helm/helm/master/scripts/get-helm-3
chmod 700 get_helm.sh
./get_helm.sh
```

Get IP and e-mail.

```bash
gcloud compute addresses create endpoints-ip --region europe-west3
export LB_IP_ADDR="$(gcloud compute addresses list | awk '/endpoints-ip/ {print$2}')"; echo "LB_IP_ADDR=${LB_IP_ADDR}"
nslookup ${LB_IP_ADDR}.nip.io
export EMAIL="$(gcloud auth list 2> /dev/null | awk '/^\*/ {print $2}')"; echo $EMAIL
```

Install GitLab 13.3.5

```bash
helm repo add gitlab https://charts.gitlab.io/
helm repo update
helm upgrade --install gitlab gitlab/gitlab                    \
             --version 4.3.5                                   \
             --timeout 600s                                     \
             --set global.hosts.externalIP=${LB_IP_ADDR}       \
             --set global.hosts.domain=${LB_IP_ADDR}.nip.io    \
             --set gitlab-runner.runners.privileged=true       \
             --set certmanager-issuer.email=${EMAIL}
```

Wait 5-10 min to starting pods.
If unicorn is running, you can login to Web.

```bash
kubectl get pods
echo; echo "https://gitlab.${LB_IP_ADDR}.nip.io"; echo
```

## Setup GitLab

1. Initial data to GitLab portal.
- user: root
- password from secret
- GitLab education License Key

```bash
echo; kubectl get secret gitlab-gitlab-initial-root-password -ojsonpath={.data.password} | base64 --decode ; echo; echo
echo; curl https://gitlab.com/gitlab-workshops/gitlab-on-gke-gnext/raw/master/gitlab-on-gke/gitlab.license; echo; echo
```

2. Go to admin area.
3. Find **License** section and **Upload New License**.
4. Go to Kubernetes section. Next Add existing cluster.

```bash
echo; kubectl cluster-info | awk '/Kubernetes master/ {print $NF}'; echo #API URL
echo; kubectl get secret $(kubectl get secrets | grep default-token| awk '{print $1}') -o jsonpath="{['data']['ca\.crt']}" | base64 --decode; echo; echo
kubectl create serviceaccount -n default gitlab
kubectl create clusterrolebinding gitlab-cluster-admin --serviceaccount default:gitlab --clusterrole=cluster-admin
echo; kubectl -n default get secret $(kubectl -n default get secrets| awk '/^gitlab-token/ {print $1}') -o jsonpath="{['data']['token']}" | base64 --decode; echo; echo
```

5. Install **Ingress** and **Prometheus** to your GKE. GKE section.
6. Add Base domain GKE information in GitLab (DNS name). GKE section.
7. Install GitLab Runner using GCP Cloud Shell.

   7.1. Get certificate from your Web page {LB_IP_ADDR}.nip.io

   7.2 Create file on your Cloud Shell {LB_IP_ADDR}.nip.io.crt

```bash
kubectl create ns gitlab-managed-apps
kubectl --namespace gitlab-managed-apps create secret generic gitlabcrt --from-file=gitlab.${LB_IP_ADDR}.nip.io.crt
git clone https://github.com/Ansible-in-DevOps/meetup9.git
cd meetup9/infra
nano values_gl_runner.yaml # Add gitlabUrl and runnerRegistrationToken -> GitLab -> Admin section -> Runners
helm upgrade --install gitlab-runner-aido --namespace gitlab-managed-apps -f ./values_gl_runner.yaml gitlab/gitlab-runner --version 0.20.1
```

Check GitLab -> Admin section -> Runners.


## Setup CI/CD pipeline 

1. Create apps repo.
   
Copy/paste code from Meetup9 https://github.com/Ansible-in-DevOps/meetup9/tree/master). 

1. **gitlab-ci.yml** and **Dockerfile** to root tree. 
2. Next create app dir and copy/paste **index.js**, **package.json** and **start.sh** there.

Check if Docker registry is enabled. https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/packages/container_registry/

Next add token for Docker registry and add Vars: **CI_REGISTRY_USER**, **CI_REGISTRY_PASSWORD** and **CI_REGISTRY**.

Now create infra repo.
